{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;
\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\author Douglas F. De Boer}{\operator Douglas F. De Boer}{\creatim\yr2003\mo9\dy11\hr9\min28}
{\revtim\yr2003\mo9\dy11\hr9\min38}{\version2}{\edmins10}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords1081}{\nofchars6167}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws7573}{\vern113}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale90 \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b Extracts from e-mails with Brian Glover
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par Please accept my thanks for the parts you played several years ago in my recent success on the PE exam.  First, while at Dordt you encouraged a culture that put high value on at least sitting for the Fundamentals ex
am.  Without having taken and having passed that exam about four years ago, I could not have taken the PE exam this spring.  Second, the courses in the Dordt curriculum put a rightful emphasis on the fundamentals.  At least that's what I remember; and I h
ope that my now 40-year-old brain has not sprung a leak :-).
\par 
\par The IEEE Power Engineering Society publishes a general-interest magazine, IEEE Power & Energy.  Beginning in 2003, this has replaced the former magazine, IEEE Power Engineering Review.  The IEEE 
Power & Energy Magazine has articles in it that I think curious and bright undergraduate students should be interested in reading or just browsing through, if they are made aware that there is such a magazine.  I say  "should" because it so often seems th
at students find themselves with a short-term perspective, such as just getting the next homework assignment done, and anything beyond maybe the next semester just does not even cross their minds.  (I was a student once or twice.) 
\par 
\par For example, in the most
 recent issue is an article about what engineers need to take into account when designing electric markets, based on what was left out of the market design process in California a few years ago.  There's another article titled "Acquiring Energy Resources 
i
n a Competitive Market" that introduces close to all of the terminology and big picture concepts that are part of the everyday working world in the wholesale power industry.  Plus it has plenty of diagrams that show how various parts of the wholesale mark
ets relate to each other.  
\par 
\par I think these kinds of articles, while probably unrealistic to link into class assignments, etc, are what students need to be made aware of.  For one, it might provide a bit of relief from the "agony" of some of the  math that a
rises in AC analysis, and show students that there is a lot  more to the power industry than laboring over the mathematical  complexities.  Plus, that there is a lot of design work yet to do when it comes to getting markets to function.  On the other hand
, students might raise the screed of "These not-so-technical aspects are beneath my enlightened dignity; why should we stoop to the business-economic end of  things when there's all the glory of the technical analysis. . ."
\par 
\par The reality is that if all the m
athematical analysis seems pretty hard to the engineers, I guarantee it is completely out of the realm of imagination for the less-technically inclined business people.  And those less-technical business people need to have an interface with the technical
 
realities of electric systems.  But the non-technical business people need to be met nearer to or on the non-technical turf.  The valuable engineer will be one who is able and willing to make the connections between the technical and non-technical sides o
f
 a business.   The technical and non-technical facets all have their complexities;  "non-technical" is not synonymous with "simple."  The challenge for engineers is to become that interface between what may seem to be clashing perspectives of a business o
r a project. It is a valid and necessary role for engineers.  
\par 
\par While the power industry is mature, and while the heyday of expanding the transmission network is past and probably will never return, there  are many worthy design areas that need willing engineers.
\par 
\par One of those is how to deal with relatively small-sized (under 100 MW, even down into the dozens of kW) "distributed generation" that is connected directly to the distribution network, not to the transmission network.  Practically all distribution 
networks were not designed or built to accommodate generation that might "back feed" part of the circuit.  There are emerging standards on this topic even now.  The market forces at work in distributed generation are generally that industrial/commercial e
l
ectric consumers are looking for the maximum reliability for the lowest cost, and smaller-sized gas turbine generators have become economically feasible.  So many more smaller-sized (and more numerous) industrial/commercial electric consumers have become 
i
nterested in the prospect of installing their own backup generation.  Plus, if the system is designed well, that industrial-owned backup generation can become an effective part of a utility company's own emergency preparedness scheme, even if the  generat
or is quite small.
\par 
\par I do not have figures on all that, but with very few large-scale transmission projects even being attempted, and with electric power demand continuing to rise, it's clear that the demand is already or eventually will be met with generati
on that is both electrically and geographically closer to the load.  This is leading all the more toward a significant shift in how power systems are designed, both industrial/commercial plant power systems and the utility-level power systems.  This also 
grows into public policy dynamics, on many levels from the city/county all the way to national/continental.
\par 
\par Another emerging facet in power engineering is how to manage the widely fluctuating output of large-scale wind generation onto transmission or distr
ibution networks.  This is something that I have only heard about distantly, but with increasing installation of wind generation, it is certain that finding less-costly, electrically and mechanically stable ways to accomplish this will make wind generatio
n all the more viable. 
\par 
\par Another growing field has to do with very large electrical energy storage devices.  The two major branches of this area are in superconducting magnetic storage (SMES) or batteries.  Figuring out how to make these more economical, wh
ere to implement and how to control them within a transmission or distribution network calls for plenty of ongoing original engineering design work.
\par 
\par I would urge students to become student members of the IEEE Power Engineering Society (PES), even if they 
think they are not interested in the power engineering area.  PES used to and probably still does have very inexpensive, if not free, dues for student members.  PES membership includes a subscription to Power & Energy magazine.
\par 
\par Another IEEE society that has a heavy focus on power systems is the Industrial Applications Society (IAS).  I think IAS cuts a bargain deal for student members, too.
\par 
\par Can you tell that I am a reader?  I have found it valuable even to page through these periodicals just to gain familiarity with the topics in the field.
\par 
\par Overall, my thought is that due to the nature of undergraduate students, they will slurp up all the math and technical content, even if they gripe about it now and then.  They need at least to be presented with the not
ion that the technical stuff does not exist for its own sake, that it is connected to, related to and embedded into any number of seemingly non-technical systems that have their own inherent complexities.  And that making the connections and being (or bec
oming) useful calls for increasing the breadth of one's awareness.
\par 
\par Hope this helps, and that I have not made you regret asking for suggestions.
\par 
\par Sincerely,
\par 
\par Brian P. Glover, P.E.
\par Engineer, MAPPCOR
\par 1125 Energy Park Drive
\par St. Paul, MN 55108-5001
\par Phone 651 632 8528    Fax 651 632 8572    E-mail bp.glover@mapp.org
\par }}