{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f16\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020404030301010803}Garamond;}{\f113\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Garamond CE;}{\f114\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Garamond Cyr;}{\f116\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Garamond Greek;}{\f117\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Garamond Tur;}
{\f118\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Garamond Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*
\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 header;}{\s16\widctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext16 Normal-Arial;}{\s17\fi-2160\li2160\sb120\widctlpar
\tx2160\adjustright \f1\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon16 \snext17 ABET-Sylabus;}{\s18\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 footer;}{\*\cs19 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}}{\info
{\title Dordt College, Engineering Department}{\author Authorized Gateway Customer}{\operator Douglas F. De Boer}{\creatim\yr2007\mo1\dy11\hr9\min58}{\revtim\yr2007\mo1\dy11\hr11\min14}{\printim\yr2004\mo1\dy11\hr21\min17}{\version3}{\edmins5}{\nofpages2}
{\nofwords775}{\nofchars4418}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws0}{\vern113}}\margl1440\margr1440\margt720\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind1\viewscale90\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd 
\psz1\linex0\endnhere\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \qc\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b\f16\fs36 Dordt College, Engineering Department
\par }{\b\f16\fs28 EGR 204, Introduction to Microprocessors and Digital Circuits
\par }\pard \widctlpar\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\adjustright {\b\f16\fs28 \tab Spring 2007\tab }{\f16\fs24 page }{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs19\f16\fs24  PAGE }}{\fldrslt {\cs19\f16\fs24\lang1024 2}}}{\cs19\f16\fs24  of 2}{\f16\fs28 
\par }}{\headerf \pard\plain \qc\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\b\f16\fs36 Dordt College, Engineering Department
\par }{\b\f16\fs28 EGR 204, Introduction to Microprocessors and Digital Circuits
\par Spring 2007
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s17\fi-2160\li2160\sb240\sl-220\slmult0\widctlpar\tx2160\adjustright \f1\fs20\cgrid {\f16\fs22 
Catalog Description:\tab Digital circuits are covered, from simple logic gates through 
elementary microprocessor architecture.  The course begins with elementary logic for binary systems, Boolean algebra, binary integer number formats and arithmetic and combinational design.  Intermediate topics include synchronous state machine design and 
r
egister level concepts.  The course concludes with topics in microprocessor architecture which may include elementary assembly language and interfacing.  Laboratory exercises provide experience in logic design and microprocessor interfacing.  This course 
is intended to serve both computer science and engineering students.  \line Prerequisite: Physics 116 or Physics 202 or Engineering 103.
\par }\pard \s17\fi-2160\li2160\sb80\sl-220\slmult0\widctlpar\tx2160\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Textbook:\tab M. Morris. Mano and Charles R Kime, }{\i\f16\fs22 Logic and Computer Design Fundamentals}{\f16\fs22 , 3}{\f16\fs22\super nd}{\f16\fs22 
 edition, Prentice-Hall, 2004.  ISBN 0-13-140539-X
\par }\pard \s17\fi-2160\li2160\sb80\sl-220\slmult0\widctlpar\tx2520\adjustright {\f16\fs22 References:\tab Hayes, }{\i\f16\fs22 Introduction to Digital Logic Design}{\f16\fs22 , Addison Wesley, 1993.\line Bartee, Thomas C., }{\i\f16\fs22 
Digital Computer Fundamentals}{\f16\fs22 , 6th ed., McGraw-\tab Hill, 1985.  \line Preparata, Franco P., }{\i\f16\fs22 Introduction to Computer Engineering}{\f16\fs22 , Harper and \line \tab Row, 1985.\line 
 Slater, Michael, Microprocessor Based System Design, Prentice-Hall.
\par }\pard \s17\fi-2160\li2160\sb80\sl-220\slmult0\widctlpar\tx2160\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Instructor:\tab Douglas F. De Boer, Professor of Engineering\line Office Phone 722-6245;  Home Phone 722-1414, E-mail ddeboer@dordt.edu
\par }\pard \s17\fi-2160\li2160\sb80\sl-220\slmult0\widctlpar\tx2160\tx2520\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Goals:\tab }{\i\f16\fs22 Creational Structure:}{\f16\fs22 
  Students will understand the laws of logic as particularly needed for designing digital circuits.  They will be able to use basic laboratory equipment such as power supplies, logic probes, and logic simulators as tools for analysis. They will be able to
 use a microprocessor trainer to test simple machine code and prototype circuits.
\par }\pard \s17\li2160\sb80\sl-220\slmult0\widctlpar\tx2160\tx2520\adjustright {\i\f16\fs22 Creational Development:}{\f16\fs22 
  Students will design and demonstrate combinational and sequential circuits with limited numbers (about 4) of inputs, outputs and state variables.  The
y will also design digital logic circuits that interface to a microprocessor or other programmable digital circuit.
\par }\pard \s17\fi-2160\li2160\sb80\sl-220\slmult0\widctlpar\tx2160\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Prerequisites by topic:\tab Introductory direct current electric circuits, algebra
\par }\pard \s17\fi-2160\li2160\sb80\sl-220\slmult0\widctlpar\tx2160\tqr\tx8640\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Lecture Topics:\tab Logic Gates, Boolean Algebra, Karnaugh Maps\tab (7 classes)\line Combinational logic design techniques\tab (8 classes)\line 
Binary integer number systems, codes, arithmetic\tab (4 classes)\line  Flip-Flops and Sequential logic\tab (4 classes)\line Registers and Register Transfer Operations\tab (2 classes)\line Memory and Programmable Logic\tab (3 classes)\line 
Data Path and Control Logic Design for a CPU\tab (4 classes)\line Microprocessor and/or Microcontroller\tab (5 classes)\line Tests and review\tab (5 classes)\line (Three 50 minute lectures per week, MWF)
\par }\pard \s17\fi-2160\li2160\sb80\sl-220\slmult0\widctlpar\tqc\tx-2430\tx2160\tqr\tx8640\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Lab Topics:\tab TTL Circuits and use of equipment\tab (1 week)\~\line Logic Simplification, hierarchy, VHDL\tab (2 weeks)\line 
Combination Logic Design Project & Programmable logic\tab (3 weeks)\line Binary Arithmetic and MSI Logic Functions\tab (1 week)\~\line Flip-Flops and Synchronous Sequential Logic\tab (4 weeks)\line Microprocessor trainer experience\tab (2 weeks)\line 
(One Three-hour lab session per week)
\par }\pard \s17\fi-2160\li2160\sb80\sl-220\slmult0\widctlpar\tx2160\tqr\tx8640\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Computer Use:\tab A logic simulator and programmer is introduced (Altera\rquote s Quartus II),  \line 
Students write and run short machine language programs, assembly is by hand.
\par Means of Evaluation:\tab Homework (10%), Two Tests (24% each), Final Exam (27%), Lab (15%).
\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\page }{\fs8 
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clvertalt\clshdng2000\cltxlrtb \cellx2610\clvertalt\clshdng2000\cltxlrtb \cellx6750\clvertalt\clshdng2000\cltxlrtb \cellx9540\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16 \page \page }{\f16\fs24 Dates\cell Class\cell 
Laboratory\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb \cellx2610\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb \cellx6750
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw30 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb \cellx9540\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 1/17, 1/19\cell Introduction, Binary Numbers and Codes\line Text Chapter 1, Sections 1-1, 1-2, 1-6\cell (No lab this week)
\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb \cellx2610\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb \cellx6750\clvertalt
\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb \cellx9540\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 1/22\cell Logic Gates, Boolean Algebra\line Text: Chapter 2, Sections 2-1 thru 2-3\cell }\pard 
\fi-342\li342\sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 1.) \tab Safety and Introduction. to the Equipment\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 1/29\cell 
Karnaugh Maps, Sufficient Sets of Gates\line Text: Chapter 2, Sections 2-4 to the end\cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 2.)\tab DeMorgan\rquote s Theorems and Logic Simplification\cell }\pard 
\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 2/5\cell Combinational logic, HDL & Simulation\line Text: Chapter 3\cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 3.)\tab 
Introduction to hierarchi-cal design and  VHDL\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 2/12\cell Combinational Functions\emdash  Nonarithmetic \line 
Text, Chapter 4., Sections 4-1 thru 4-5\line \line }{\b\f16\fs22 Test #1 Wednesday, 2/14}{\f16\fs22 \cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 4.)\tab Combinational Logic Design Project & Programmable Logic\line 
(1st of 3 weeks)\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 2/19\cell Combinational Functions\emdash Nonarithmetic\line Text: Chapter 4, Sections 4-6 to the end\cell }\pard 
\fi-360\li342\sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 5.)\tab Design Project (2nd wk)\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 2/26\cell Combinational Functions\emdash 
Arithmetic\line Text: Ch. 1 Sec 1.3, Ch 5 Sec. 5-1 thru 5-4\cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \tab Design Project (3rd wk)\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard 
\sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 3/5\cell Latches and Flip-Flops\line Text: Chapter 6, Sections 6-1 thru  6-3\cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 6.)\tab 
Binary Arithmetic and MSI Combinational Logic Functions\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 3/12\line    No lab Wed., Spring Break\line    No class Friday, Spg Brk\cell 
State Machines\line Text: Chapter 6, Secs. 6-4, 6-5, 6-7, 6-9.\line }{\b\f16\fs22 Test #2 Wednesday, 3/14}{\f16\fs22 \cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 7.)\tab Introduction to \line Flip-Flops \line (Mon. section only)
\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 3/26\line    No class or lab on \line    Mon., Spring Brk\cell Registers\line Text: Chapter 7 omitting Section 7-11\cell }\pard 
\fi-342\li342\sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 7.)\tab Introduction to \line Flip-Flops \line (Wed. section only)\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 4/2\cell 
Memory and Programmable Logic\line Text Chapter 9\cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 8.)\tab Synchronous State Machine Design \line (1st of 3 weeks)\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard 
\sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 4/9\cell CPU and Microprocessor Basics\line Text Chapter 10\cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \tab Design Project (2nd wk)\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright 
{\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 4/16\cell Assembly Language\line Text Chapter 11\cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \tab Design Project (3rd wk)\cell }\pard 
\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 4/23\cell I/O and Communication\line Text Chapter 13\cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 9)\tab 
Introduction to a Microprocessor\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 4/30\cell Review or catch-up\cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 10.)
\tab Writing and Assembling a Program\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb \cellx2610\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb \cellx6750\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb \cellx9540\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of Exams\cell }{\b\f16\fs22 Final Exam\line Tuesday 5/8, 3:30 p.m. \endash  5:30 p.m.
\cell }{\f16\fs22 \cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard\plain \s17\sb120\widctlpar\tx-5220\adjustright \f1\fs20\cgrid {\f16\fs16 The class 
and laboratory schedules may vary by up to two weeks to accommodate the pace of this particular group of students.  \line This could require the deletion or addition of a corresponding amount of course content.  
\par }}