{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff16\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f16\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Calibri;}{\f17\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}Consolas;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\sa200\sl276\slmult1\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f16\fs22 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\sb240\sa120\sl276\slmult1
\keepn\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs28 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Heading;}{\s16\sa120\sl276\slmult1\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f16\fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}{\s17\sa120\sl276\slmult1\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f16\fs22 \sbasedon16 \snext17 List;}{
\s18\sb120\sa120\sl276\slmult1\nowidctlpar\adjustright \i\f16 \sbasedon0 \snext18 caption;}{\s19\sa200\sl276\slmult1\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f16\fs22 \sbasedon0 \snext19 Index;}{\s20\sb120\sa120\sl276\slmult1\nowidctlpar\adjustright \i\f16 
\sbasedon0 \snext20 WW-caption;}{\s21\sl200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f17\fs21 \sbasedon0 \snext21 Plain Text;}{\*\cs22 \additive \f17\fs21 \sbasedon10 Plain Text Char;}{\*\cs23 \additive Numbering Symbols;}}{\info{\author Douglas De Boer}
{\operator Douglas F. De Boer}{\creatim\yr2009\mo11\dy17\hr22\min34}{\revtim\yr2009\mo11\dy19\hr13\min3}{\version3}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords370}{\nofchars2114}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws2596}{\vern113}}\margl864\margr864\margt864\margb864 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale90 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s21\sl200\slmult0
\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f17\fs21 {\f2\fs20                                                         Name__________________________
\par EGR 360                                PS#_____         Page_____ of_____ Date________
\par 
\par }{
\par }\pard \s21\qc\sl200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\f0\fs20 Five-Bus System homework assignment from Power World.}{
\par }\pard \s21\sl200\slmult0\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\f0\fs20 
\par 1.  For the power system of utility A, use the PowerWorld program to find the MVAr rating of a shunt capacitor at Bus 3 that increases V3 to 1.00 p.u. Determine the effect of the capacitor bank on the line loading and total I2R losses.
\par }{\f2\fs20 
\par The needed MVAr rating is 190 MVAr.  
\par There is a slight reduction in line losses because bus __ no longer needs delivery of as much reactive power.  Since the total load is unchanged at ___ MW, the losses are reduced from ___ MW to ___ MW.  
\par }{
\par                         }{\f2\fs20 Line 5-4   Line 3-4   Line 3-5     Total losses}{
\par                         }{\f2\fs20 pu (MVA)   pu (MVA)   pu (MVA)     MW}{
\par }{\f2\fs20 Before adding shunt 
\par After adding shunt  }{
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20 2.  Run the original power flow for utility A. Do you find any voltage violations? (The normal range of bus v
oltages is assumed to be 0.95-1.05 p.u.)  Now suppose both transformers in this system are tap changing transformers whose taps can be varied from 0.85 to 1.15 p.u. in increments of 0.05 p.u. Determine the tap settings required to increase the voltage at 
bus 3 to 0.95 p.u., while causing as few high voltage violations as possible at the other buses. }{
\par }{\f2\fs20 
\par (write your own answers following each problem statement.    
\par }{
\par }{\f2\fs20 
\par }{\b\f0\fs20 3.  A new transformer is installed between buses 2 and 5, in parallel with the existing transf
ormer between buses 2 and 5. The new transformer is identical to the existing transformer. The taps on both transformers are set to the nominal value, 1.0 p.u. Find the real power, reactive power and MVA supplied by each of these transformers to bus 5.}{

\par }{\f2\fs20 
\par 
\par }{
\par }{\b\f0\fs20 
4.  Refer to the one-line diagram of utility A. Suppose an additional line is installed between buses 3 and 4. The line parameters of the added line are equal to those of the existing line 3-4. Determine the effects on the voltage at bus 3, line loading a
nd total I2R losses.}{
\par }{\f2\fs20 
\par 
\par }{
\par }{\b\f0\fs20 
5.  In problem 2 you already ran the power flow for utility A and detected low voltage violations. Place a capacitor at bus 3 to bring the bus 3 voltage up to 0.95 p.u. Determine the size of the capacitor bank. Now suppose the line between buses 3 and 5 i
s
 removed for maintenance. Run the power flow again. Is the operating condition acceptable? If not, determine the amount of load you have to shed at bus 3 in order to maintain the bus 3 voltage above 0.95 p.u. Cut the same percentage of MW and MVAr at bus 
3.}{
\par }{\f2\fs20 
\par }{\f2 
\par }{
\par }}