{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info
{\title Additional Problems for Chapter 9 in Mohan, First Course on Power Systems, Year 2006 Edition.}{\author Authorized Gateway Customer}{\operator Douglas F. De Boer}{\creatim\yr2009\mo12\dy3\hr10\min45}{\revtim\yr2009\mo12\dy3\hr10\min56}{\version4}
{\edmins1}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords311}{\nofchars1778}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws0}{\vern113}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind1\viewscale120\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {DDB\rquote s Additional Problems for Mohan, First Course on Power Systems, Year 2006 Edition.\line 
\par }\pard \fi-540\li540\widctlpar\tx900\adjustright {9-A\tab 
It is possible to convert 60 Hz power to 50 Hz power with a synchronous motor directly driving (no gearbox) a synchronous generator.  Both machines turn at the same speed (RPM).  (This is often done in laboratories where appliances for sale overseas need 
to be tested on 50 Hz power.)  \line a.)\tab What is the maximum speed (in RPM) that can be used for such a machine?  \line \tab (Maximum speed implies the lowest shaft torque and thus the lightest, smallest machine.)\line b.)\tab 
Given the speed calculated in part (a), how many poles does the motor have?  \line c.)\tab Given the speed calculated in part (a), how many poles does the generator have?
\par 
\par 9-B\tab A 60 Hz, cylindrical rotor, two-pole, three-phase, Y-connected, 25 kV, 500 MVA synchronous electric power generator has synchronous reactance }{\i X}{\sub S}{ of 1.7 p.u. (}{{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 87 \\f "Symbol" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f3\fs20}}}{
) and subtransient reactance }{\i X}{\sub S}{\super \rdblquote }{\~of\~0.2\~p.u.\~}{{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 40 \\f "Symbol" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f3\fs20}}}{{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 87 \\f "Symbol" \\s 10}{\fldrslt\f3\fs20}}}{
).  It is driving a balanced delta-connected three-phase load of 250\~MVA at rated voltage, 25 kV.  The load presents a power factor of 0.8\~lagging.  \line a.)\tab Draw a per phase phasor diagram (phase a only) using per-unit measures.  Show the \line 
\tab induced emf from the field, }{\b\i E}{\sub af}{, the induced emf from the armature reaction, }{\b\i E}{\sub a,AR}{, the \line \tab terminal voltage }{\b\i V}{\sub a}{, and the power angle }{{\field{\*\fldinst SYMBOL 100 \\f "Symbol" \\s 10}{\fldrslt
\f3\fs20}}}{.  Neglect winding resistance, }{\i R}{\sub a}{. \line b.)\tab Draw another phasor diagram to illustrate the same situation except the load being increased \line \tab to 500 MVA (full load).  \line c.)\tab 
Draw another phasor diagram to illustrate the same situation except the load being 500 MVA \line \tab at a power factor of 0.8 leading.  \line d.)\tab Why is the situation of part (c) not practical?  What is the maximum apparent power of the \line \tab 
load that that you would recommend for this power factor?  Explain your recommendation.  \line e.)\tab This generator, operating under the conditions of part (a), suddenly experiences a three-\line \tab 
phase short due to the failure of the transformer connected to its output.  (The terminal \line \tab voltages become zero with respect to neutral on all three phases due to the short.)  What is \line \tab the short circuit current 
that flows?  Give your answer in both per unit measure and in \line \tab amperes.  
\par }}