{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f16\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020404030301010803}Garamond;}{\f113\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Garamond CE;}{\f114\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Garamond Cyr;}{\f116\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Garamond Greek;}{\f117\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Garamond Tur;}
{\f118\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Garamond Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 
\additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title Dordt College Engineering Department}{\author Authorized Gateway Customer}{\operator Douglas F. De Boer}{\creatim\yr2007\mo1\dy11\hr10\min1}{\revtim\yr2009\mo1\dy12\hr15\min40}
{\printim\yr1999\mo8\dy26\hr16\min11}{\version19}{\edmins129}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords774}{\nofchars4414}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws0}{\vern113}}\margl1440\margr1440\margt864\margb864 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\formshade\viewkind1\viewscale92 \fet0
\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}
{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\b\f16\fs40 Dordt College Engineering Department
\par EGR 304, Embedded Microcomputer Systems\line }{\f16\fs24 (Formerly, \ldblquote Microprocessor Interfacing\rdblquote )
\par }\pard \qc\sa120\widctlpar\adjustright {\f16\fs24 Spring Semester, 2009
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clvertalt\cltxlrtb \cellx1710\clvertalt\cltxlrtb \cellx9450\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\b\f16 2008-09\line Catalog\line Data:\cell EGR 304  Embedded Microcomputer Systems (4 credit hours)}{\f16 
  A course on the design of microcontr
oller-based systems and the associated software and hardware.  Software issues such as modular design, interrupt driven I/O, and design for reliability are covered.  Hardware issues such as serial and parallel interfacing, bus structures, grounding and sh
i
elding, and D/A and A/D conversions are also studied.  Lab exercises provide design experience using a particular microcontroller or soft processor foundation in an FPGA.  Prerequisites: Engineering 204, 220, Computer Science 110 or 111 or by permission o
f the instructor.\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16 \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clvertalt\cltxlrtb \cellx1710\clvertalt\cltxlrtb \cellx9450\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\b\f16 Textbooks:\cell }{\f16 No textbook required.
\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16 \row }\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\b\f16 References:\cell }{\f16 Altera, NIOS II Processor Reference Manual (and other related documents)
\par }\pard \sb60\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16 Sedra and Smith, }{\i\f16 Microelectronic Circuits}{\f16 , Oxford
\par William Stallings, }{\i\f16 Data and Computer Communications
\par }{\f16 Circuit Cellar Magazine and Circuit Cellar Online (http://www.circuitcellar.com)\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16 \row }\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\b\f16 Instructor:\cell }{\f16 Douglas De Boer\cell }\pard 
\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16 \row }\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\b\f16 Goals:\cell }{\i\f16 Creational Structure}{\f16 
:  Students will design a system that uses an embedded processor.  The design will incorporate polled or interrupt driven input/output and a sensor to measure a physical quantity such as temperature, pressure, etc.  This is a primary goal of this course.

\par }{\i\f16 Contemporary Response}{\f16 :  Students will consider the application of norms for the design of appropriate ergonomics for an I/O interface.
\par }{\i\f16 Creational Development}{\f16 :  Students will study the historical development of some standards, such as for serial interfacing, and reflect on how these past developments now influence modern trends in computer engineering.  \cell }\pard 
\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16 \row }\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\b\f16 Prerequisites by topic:\cell }{\f16 Linear circ
uit analysis, elementary electronics, and digital logic circuits.  Some experience with microprocessors is assumed but proficiency is not assumed.\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16 \row }\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\b\f16 
Laboratory:\cell }{\f16 One or two design projects will be completed, each with a formal written report.  Design project
s may be proposed by the students but must be approved in advance by the instructor.  Some laboratory time may be used to present project management and presentation techniques.  Grounds for lab project approval are based on the scope of the project and t
he relation of the project to the lecture material in class.  Depending on the scope of the project work undertaken, there usually will also be a number of short lab exercises with informal reports graded as homework.\cell }\pard 
\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16 \row }\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\b\f16 Computer use:\cell }{\f16 A cross assembler or com
piler will be used to support the microprocessor or microcontroller used in the lab, or else a language such as C may be used, as appropriate to the projects selected by the students.  Students are encouraged (but not required) to use programs such as Mat
hcad or Matlab for homework solutions where appropriate.  This course makes use of Dordt\rquote s course management system, courses@dordt.  To logon, the URL is http://courses.dordt.edu.  Use your Dordt College Novell account user ID and password.\cell 
}\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16 \row }\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\b\f16 Academic Dishonesty\cell }{\f16 
Students must do their own work.  Students may discuss homework but may not show papers to each other outside class.  This course is also subject to the College\rquote 
s policies on academic dishonesty (http://www.dordt.edu/publications/defender/ under the category \ldblquote General Information\rdblquote ) and the homework standards posted on the course web page.  .\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16 \row 
}\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\b\f16 Accommodations:\cell }\pard \sb120\sa120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16 
Students who require assistance or accommodations based on the impact of a documented disability must contact Marliss Van Der Zwaag, the Coordinato
r of Services for Students with Disabilities to access accommodations.  Telephone 722-6490, e-mail mvdzwaag@dordt.edu\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16 \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clvertalt\cltxlrtb \cellx1710\clvertalt\cltxlrtb 
\cellx9450\pard \sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\b\f16 Means of \line Evaluation:\cell }{\f16 Homework (10%), Two Tests (20% each) Laboratory Project(s) (26%), Final Exam (24%)\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16 \row }\pard 
\sa80\widctlpar\adjustright {\f1\fs2 
\par }\pard \qc\widctlpar\adjustright {\b\f16\fs44 \page }{\b\f16\fs40 Dordt College Engineering Department
\par EGR 304, Embedded Microcomputer Systems
\par }{\f16\fs24 (Formerly, \ldblquote Microprocessor Interfacing\rdblquote )}{\b\f16\fs40 \line Course Outline
\par }\pard \qc\sa240\widctlpar\adjustright {\f16\fs24 Spring Semester, 2009
\par }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30 \clshdng2000\cltxlrtb \cellx2430\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30 \clshdng2000\cltxlrtb \cellx7380\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw30 \clshdng2000\cltxlrtb \cellx9540\pard 
\sb120\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 Dates\cell Class  (Timing is approximate.  Adjustments are usually needed to facilitate lab work, etc.)\cell Laboratory \line (Example Schedule)\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 \row 
}\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb \cellx2430\clvertalt\cltxlrtb \cellx7380\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb \cellx9540\pard \sb100\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 Week of 1/13 15\cell Introduction: 
\line Review of assembly language programming:  \cell Initial Set-up of NIOS environment\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 \row }\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb \cellx2430
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb \cellx7380\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb \cellx9540\pard \sb100\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 Week of 1/20, 22\cell 
Review of C language programming.\cell Basic digital I/O,\line reading and writing bits\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 \row }\pard \sb100\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 Week of 1/27, 29\cell Parallel interfacing\cell 
Transmission Lines\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 \row }\pard \sb100\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 Week of 2/3, 5\cell Parallel I/O devices\cell Project I (5}{\f16\fs24  weeks)}{\f16\fs24 \cell }\pard 
\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 \row }\pard \sb100\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 Week of 2/10, 12\cell Serial Interfacing and RS-232\cell \cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 \row }\pard \sb100\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright 
{\f16\fs24 Week of 2/17, 19\cell Ch. 7. Serial Interfacing\emdash \line RS-232 and similar schemes, \line }{\b\f16\fs24 Test #1, Thursday 2/19}{\f16\fs24 \cell \cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 \row }\pard 
\sb100\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 Week of 2/24, 26\cell Serial Interfacing\emdash Ethernet \cell \cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 \row }\pard \sb100\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 Week of 3/3, 3/5\cell Ser
ial Interfacing\emdash USB (not in the text)  \cell \cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 \row }\pard \sb100\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 Week of 3/10, 12\line }{\f16\fs18 (no class 3/17, 19, spring break)}{\f16\fs24 \cell 
Memory Interfacing\cell (no lab on 3/14 or\line 3/21, Spring Break)\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 \row }\pard \sb100\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 Week of 3/24-26\cell Analog interfacing, A/D\cell Project II (5 weeks)\cell 
}\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 \row }\pard \sb100\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 Week of 3/31, 4/2\cell Analog interfacing, D/A\cell \cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 \row }\pard 
\sb100\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 Week of  4/9\line }{\f16\fs18 (no class 4/7, assessment day)}{\f16\fs24 \cell Position encoders\cell \cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 \row }\pard \sb100\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {
\f16\fs24 Week of 4/14, 16\cell Motor control\line }{\b\f16\fs24 Test #2, Tuesday 4/14}{\f16\fs24 \cell \cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 \row }\pard \sb100\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 Week of 4/21, 23\cell Review 
and project discussion\cell \cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 \row }\pard \sb100\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 Week of 4/28, 30\cell Review\cell (possible short lab)\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 \row 
}\trowd \trgaph108\trleft-108 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb \cellx2430\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb \cellx7380\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw15 \cltxlrtb \cellx9540\pard \sb100\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 Week of Exams
\cell }{\b\f16\fs24 Final Exam, \line Monday 5/4, 3:30 \endash   5:30 PM\cell }{\f16\fs24 \cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 \row }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs16 The class schedule may vary considerably to accommodate 
new hardware and software and student interests and abilities.  The lab is intended to be mostly open-ended and project oriented.  This implies that content may also be added to or deleted from the course as needed to accommodate this flexibility.  

\par }}