{\rtf1\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset1 Tahoma;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue255;\red128\green0\blue128;}\pard\tx1500\tx3000\plain\fs16\b1 From: \b0\tab Douglas De Boer\par
\pard\tx1500\tx3000\plain\fs16\b1 To:\b0\tab EGR-220-01 2008/F\par
\pard\tx1500\tx3000\plain\fs16\b1 Date: \b0\tab 10/23/2008 2:09 PM\par
\pard\tx1500\tx3000\plain\fs16\b1 Subject: \b0\tab EGR 220--PS # 22 Q & A\par
\par
{\stylesheet{\fs16 GroupWiseView;}}\fs16 Ian and the EGR 220 Class,\par  \par Ian Kuipers has asked a question, the answer to which\par might be helpful to many in the class.\par  \par Yes, v(t) could be graphed, although the problem\par statement does not require a graph.  Compare this\par problem to Example 7.3-2 on page 245 of your text.\par Just above the middle of page 245 you see a piecewise \par expression for v(t).  In that expression each of the\par integrals can be worked out to a function of t.  \par For example the integral for the time 0 <= t <=1 \par works out to t^2 as explained in the text below the\par piecewise expression of v(t).  Thus the "answer" to\par this exercise could be expressed as:\par  \par v(t) = 0          if    t <= 0\par          \par          t^2      if     0 <= t <= 1\par  \par         (2t - 1)  if    1 <= t <= 2\par  \par          2         if     t >= 2\par  \par That's the type of answer the authors of our text\par expected.  You could work P7.3-4 the same way\par and give the piecewise expression for v(t) as your\par answer without graphing it.  In other words, \par solving for "an equation for the graph" is the best\par way to solve this problem.\par  \par Regards,\par  \par --DDB\par \par \par >>> Ian Kuipers 10/23/2008 1:00 PM >>>\par I'm working on today's homework and had a question: On problem 7.3-4 when we solve for v(t) the solution will be a graph somewhat simlar to the one given for i(t) in the problem right?  I just want to make sure that I'm not supposed to solve for an equation for the graph.\par Thanks\par Ian Kuipers\par }