{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f16\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020404030301010803}Garamond;}{\f113\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Garamond CE;}{\f114\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Garamond Cyr;}{\f116\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Garamond Greek;}{\f117\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Garamond Tur;}
{\f118\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Garamond Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 
\additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\sb240\sa120\keepn\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs28 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Heading;}{\s16\sa120\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext16 Body Text;}{\s17\sa120\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 
\sbasedon16 \snext17 List;}{\s18\sb120\sa120\nowidctlpar\adjustright \i \sbasedon0 \snext18 caption;}{\s19\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext19 Index;}{\s20\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext20 header;}{
\s21\nowidctlpar\adjustright \f1\fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext21 Normal-Arial;}{\s22\fi-2160\li2160\sb120\nowidctlpar\tx2160\adjustright \f1\fs20 \sbasedon21 \snext22 ABET-Sylabus;}{\s23\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\adjustright \fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext23 
footer;}{\s24\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\adjustright \fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext24 WW-header;}{\s25\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 \sbasedon0 \snext25 Table Contents;}{\s26\qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright \b\fs20 \sbasedon25 \snext26 Table Heading;}{\*\cs27 
\additive \sbasedon10 page number;}}{\info{\author Douglas De Boer}{\operator Douglas F. De Boer}{\creatim\yr2008\mo1\dy11\hr17\min11}{\revtim\yr2008\mo1\dy15\hr15\min39}{\printim\yr2113\mo1\dy1}{\version4}{\edmins10}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords769}
{\nofchars4385}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws0}{\vern113}}\margl1440\margr1440\margt1755\margb720 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale92 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex0\titlepg\sectdefaultcl {\header \pard\plain \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright 
\fs20 {\b\f16\fs36 Dordt College, Engineering Department
\par }{\b\f16\fs28 EGR 204, Introduction to Microprocessors and Digital Circuits
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4680\tqr\tx9360\adjustright {\b\f16\fs28 \tab Spring 2008\tab }{\f16 page }{\field{\*\fldinst {\f16 \\page\\* ARABIC}}{\fldrslt {\f16 2}}}{\cs27\f16\fs24  of 2}{
\par }}{\headerf \pard\plain \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\b\f16\fs36 Dordt College, Engineering Department
\par }{\b\f16\fs28 EGR 204, Introduction to Microprocessors and Digital Circuits
\par Spring 2008
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s22\fi-2160\li2160\sb240\sl-220\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx2160\adjustright \f1\fs20 {\f16\fs22 Catalog Description:
\tab Digital circuits are covered, from simple logic gates through elementary microprocessor architecture.  The course begins with elementary logic for 
binary systems, Boolean algebra, binary integer number formats and arithmetic and combinational design.  Intermediate topics include synchronous state machine design and register level concepts.  The course concludes with topics in microprocessor architec
ture which may include elementary assembly language and interfacing.  Laboratory exercises provide experience in logic design and microprocessor interfacing.  This course is intended to serve both computer science and engineering students.  \line 
Prerequisite: Physics 116 or Physics 202 or Engineering 103.
\par }\pard \s22\fi-2160\li2160\sb80\sl-220\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx2160\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Textbook:\tab M. Morris. Mano and Charles R Kime, }{\i\f16\fs22 Logic and Computer Design Fundamentals}{\f16\fs22 , 4}{\f16\fs22\up9 th}{\f16\fs22 
  edition, Prentice-Hall, 2008.  ISBN 0-13-198926-X
\par }\pard \s22\fi-2160\li2160\sb80\sl-220\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx6840\adjustright {\f16\fs22 References:\tab Hayes, }{\i\f16\fs22 Introduction to Digital Logic Design}{\f16\fs22 , Addison Wesley\line Bartee, Thomas C., }{\i\f16\fs22 
Digital Computer Fundamentals}{\f16\fs22 , McGraw-\tab Hill.  \line Preparata, Franco P., }{\i\f16\fs22 Introduction to Computer Engineering}{\f16\fs22 , Harper and\tab Row.\line Slater, Michael, Microprocessor Based System Design, Prentice-Hall.
\par }\pard \s22\fi-2160\li2160\sb80\sl-220\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx2160\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Instructor:\tab Douglas F. De Boer, Professor of Engineering\line Office Phone 722-6245;  Home Phone 722-1414, E-mail ddeboer@dordt.edu
\par }\pard \s22\fi-2160\li2160\sb80\sl-220\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx6480\tx6840\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Goals:\tab }{\i\f16\fs22 Creational Structure:}{\f16\fs22 
  Students will understand the laws of logic as particularly needed for designing digital circuits.  They will be able to use basic laboratory e
quipment such as power supplies, logic probes, and logic simulators as tools for analysis. They will be able to use a microprocessor trainer to test simple machine code and prototype circuits.
\par }\pard \s22\li2160\sb80\sl-220\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx2160\tx2520\adjustright {\i\f16\fs22 Creational Development:}{\f16\fs22   Students will design and demonstrate c
ombinational and sequential circuits with limited numbers (about 4) of inputs, outputs and state variables.  They will also design digital logic circuits that interface to a microprocessor or other programmable digital circuit.
\par }\pard \s22\fi-2160\li2160\sb80\sl-220\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx2160\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Prerequisites by topic:\tab Introductory direct current electric circuits, algebra
\par }\pard \s22\fi-2160\li2160\sb80\sl-220\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx8370\tqr\tx12960\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Lecture Topics:\tab Logic Gates, Boolean Algebra, Karnaugh Maps\tab (7 classes)\line Combinational logic design techniques\tab (8 classes)\line 
Binary integer number systems, codes, arithmetic\tab (4 classes)\line  Flip-Flops and Sequential logic\tab (4 classes)\line Registers and Register Transfer Operations\tab (2 classes)\line Memory and Programmable Logic\tab (3 classes)\line 
Data Path and Control Logic Design for a CPU\tab (4 classes)\line Microprocessor and/or Microcontroller\tab (5 classes)\line Tests and review\tab (5 classes)\line (Three 50 minute lectures per week, MWF)
\par }\pard \s22\fi-2160\li2160\sb80\sl-220\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx1890\tx8370\tqr\tx12960\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Lab Topics:\tab TTL Circuits and use of equipment\tab (1 week)\~\line Logic Simplification, hierarchy, VHDL\tab (2 weeks)\line 
Combination Logic Design Project & Programmable logic\tab (3 weeks)\line Binary Arithmetic and MSI Logic Functions\tab (1 week)\~\line Flip-Flops and Synchronous Sequential Logic\tab (4 weeks)\line Microprocessor trainer experience\tab (2 weeks)\line 
(One Three-hour lab session per week)
\par }\pard \s22\fi-2160\li2160\sb80\sl-220\slmult0\nowidctlpar\tx6480\tqr\tx12960\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Computer Use:\tab A logic simulator and programmer is introduced (Altera\rquote s Quartus II),  \line Students write and run short 
machine language programs, assembly is by hand.
\par courses@dordt\tab Most assignments and handouts are available via Dordt\rquote s course management system, \ldblquote ourses@dordt.\rdblquote   To logon the URL is http://courses.dordt.edu.  Use your Dordt College Novell account user ID and password.  

\par Means of Evaluation:\tab Homework (10%), Two Tests (24% each), Final Exam (27%), Lab (15%).
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \fs20 {\f16\fs22 \page }{\fs8 
\par }\trowd \trleft-108 \clvertalt\clcbpat16\cltxlrtb \cellx2559\clvertalt\clcbpat16\cltxlrtb \cellx6622\clvertalt\clcbpat16\cltxlrtb \cellx9360\pard \sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 Dates\cell Class\cell Laboratory\cell }\pard 
\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs24 \row }\trowd \trleft-108 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw5\brdrcf1 \cltxlrtb \cellx2559\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw5\brdrcf1 \cltxlrtb \cellx6622
\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf1 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw5\brdrcf1 \cltxlrtb \cellx9360\pard \sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 1/16, 1/18\cell Introduction, Binary Numbers and Codes\line Text Chapter 1, Sections 1-1, 1-2, 1-5\cell 
(No lab this week)\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\trowd \trleft-108 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw5\brdrcf1 \cltxlrtb \cellx2559\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw5\brdrcf1 \cltxlrtb \cellx6622\clvertalt\clbrdrb
\brdrs\brdrw5\brdrcf1 \cltxlrtb \cellx9360\pard \sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 1/21\cell Logic Gates, Boolean Algebra\line Text: Chapter 2, Sections 2-1 thru 2-3\cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {
\f16\fs22 1.) \tab Safety and Introduction. to the Equipment\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 1/28\cell Karnaugh Maps, Sufficient Sets of Gates\line 
Text: Chapter 2, Sections 2-4 to the end\cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 2.)\tab DeMorgan\rquote s Theorems and Logic Simplification\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard 
\sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 2/4\cell Combinational logic, HDL & Simulation\line Text: Chapter 3, Sections 3-1 thru 3-6. \cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 3.)\tab 
Introduction to hierarchical design and  VHDL\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 2/11\cell Combinational Functions\emdash Nonarithmetic \line 
Text, Chapter 3., Sections 3-7 thru 3-8\line \line }{\b\f16\fs22 Test #1 Wednesday, 2/13}{\f16\fs22 \cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 4.)\tab Combinational Logic Design Project & Programmable Logic\line 
(1st of 3 weeks)\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 2/18\cell Combinational Functions\emdash Nonarithmetic\line Text: Chapter 3, Section 3-9 to the end\cell }\pard 
\fi-360\li342\sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 5.)\tab Design Project (2nd wk)\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 2/25\cell Combinational Functions\emdash 
Arithmetic\line Text: Ch. 1 Sec 1-3, 1-4 and Ch 4\cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \tab Design Project (3rd wk)\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {
\f16\fs22 Week of 3/3\cell Latches and Flip-Flops\line Text: Chapter 5, Sections 5-1 thru  5-3\cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 6.)\tab Binary Arithmetic and MSI Combinational Logic Functions\cell }\pard 
\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 3/10\line    No class on \line    Friday, Spring Break\cell State Machines\line Text: Chapter 5, Secs. 5-4, 5-5, 5-7, 5-10.\line }{\b\f16\fs22 
Test #2 Wednesday, 3/12}{\f16\fs22 \cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 7.)\tab Introduction to \line Flip-Flops \line \cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard 
\sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 3/24\line    No class on \line    Monday, Spring Break\cell Registers\line Text: Chapter 7 \line omitting Sections 7-11, 7-12, 7.13\cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {
\f16\fs22 7.)\tab Introduction to \line Flip-Flops \line \cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 3/31\cell Memory and Programmable Logic\line Text Chapter 8\cell }\pard 
\fi-342\li342\sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 8.)\tab Synchronous State Machine Design \line (1st of 3 weeks)\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 4/7\cell 
CPU and Microprocessor Basics\line Text Chapter 9\cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \tab Design Project (2nd wk)\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {
\f16\fs22 Week of 4/14\cell Assembly Language\line Text Chapter 10\cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \tab Design Project (3rd wk)\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard 
\sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 4/21\cell I/O and Communication\line Text Chapter 12\cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 9)\tab Introduction to a Microprocessor\cell }\pard 
\widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard \sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of 4/28\cell Review or catch-up\cell }\pard \fi-342\li342\sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 10.)\tab Writing and Assembling a Program
\cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\trowd \trleft-108 \clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw5\brdrcf1 \cltxlrtb \cellx2559\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw5\brdrcf1 \cltxlrtb \cellx6622\clvertalt\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw5\brdrcf1 \cltxlrtb 
\cellx9360\pard \sb120\nowidctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 Week of Exams\cell }{\b\f16\fs22 Final Exam\line Tuesday 5/6, 8:00 a.m. \endash  10:00 a.m.\cell }{\f16\fs22 \cell }\pard \widctlpar\intbl\adjustright {\f16\fs22 \row }\pard\plain 
\s22\sb120\nowidctlpar\tx-5220\adjustright \f1\fs20 {\f16\fs16 The class and laboratory schedules may vary by up to two weeks to accommodate the pace of this particular group of students.  \line 
This could require the deletion or addition of a corresponding amount of course content.  
\par }}